---
layout: post
title: "Lockdown 2: We've been here before"
date: 2020-11-07 11:45:00 +0000
categories: Weeknotes
tags: motorbike
---

Last weekend it was raining like hell, and it looked like we were about to enter another lockdown. It's a week later and here we are.
<!--more-->
At least the weather's a lot better now. It's been a dramatic week on the large
scale with the new lockdown across England, and the U.S. election. On a much
smaller scale for me it has been fairly mundane. I'm lucky enough to be very
insulated here in the middle of nowhere Wiltshire. It's a very tough, fragile
time for a lot of people. The lack of government support is hurting people, or
support that has come too late after people have been made redundant. The
government was optimistic again about not needing to enter a national lockdown
until it was too late, which means we're going into a longer stretch of
hibernation than the previously suggested two week firebreak. Anyway we are
where we are.

I had a reasonable feeling back in July and August that we were going to be
repeating the lockdown cycle at least once, and that things wouldn't be back to
any kind of normal before Autumn 2021. That's partly why I chose this year to
take on my Masters, there's not really a better time to be studying. There's
not much else to do, and I'm very much enjoying the work. It's so crucial to
keep learning just to stay sane and interested at any point in life. Having a
course of study really helps focus that need, and gives me a lot of pointers
along the way.

This week I've been catching up with the work not yet done. We've reached the
midpoint of the semester, so there's been a reasonable stack of courseworks to
hand in. I've really enjoyed these assignments. One was to recreate a saturated
reverse polish notation calculator in Python. We were given the example program
to interact with, and our task was to discover and recreate all of the
functionality, and all of the bugs, in our own program. Great task. I used a
trial version of the [Hopper disassembler](https://www.hopperapp.com/) to take
a peek at the binary of the original program, managed to discover some function
names which helped clue in the functionality of it. Also very easy to see all
of the error strings to reproduce, and the accepted mathematical inputs. One
thing that was not at all easy was recreating the parse logic. I'm still
definitely not 100% on that, but it was a great challenge, and kind of
realistic for the working world of porting a legacy system to a new codebase.

I've also been chewing through the work on Foundations of Computation, which is
essentially everything between a finite state machine and a Turing machine.
Fascinating low level areas to look at and build up my conceptions of. While I
had a glimmer of an idea of how this kind of thing worked previously, I didn't
have anything like a good understanding. Some algorithmic grunt work and some
creative fun stuff with regular expressions. Our next large coursework for that
is to build an arithmetic parser in Java, so I'm just about to get stuck into
that. I might blog about some of these after the hand ins are done, or about
the tools that helped me in the process.

Getting in to complicated problems like these is a really great distraction
from the large world events which I may have an opinion on, but I can't
influence directly. I think it's the distinction between *complicated* problems
and *complex* problems that is helpful to think about.  A complicated problem
is something like maths puzzles, clock mechanisms, or programming, while
complex problems are political, or organisational, or dependent on the emergent
behaviour of independent but interconnected actors.  This is borrowed from the
ideas of complexity science, but complex problems are extraordinarily draining
and difficult to spend too much time on. Complex problems also happen to be
much more important overall.

# Narratives

I've also spent a little bit of this week thinking about the ways narrative
work in life thanks to [a really thoughtful
episode](https://www.adam-buxton.co.uk/podcasts/7-bfk9m-4l8kp-blcga-jwabs-blbb8-b9mjx-fj3gr-j4lyp-9jlhe-a4bhm-c67yy-szhgm-m8pcd-l376z)
of the Adam Buxton podcast with Blindboy from the Rubberbandits. Blindboy's
point was about what helps him stay happy and sane, and basically live a good
life. He had this incredibly insightful point that for him it was about
creating narrative and meaning throughout the day. A simple example being
cooking, where the narrative starts with preparing the food and completes with
eating it, like preparing his overnight oats the night before and waking up to
a delicious breakfast in the morning. This idea of creating narratives that
mean something to you really works for me, probably because I'm an old
literature student too. The sense that you are working on a story of your life,
by breaking it down into the story of your day, and then even the story of
caring for yourself with the act of cooking or exercising.

It might be overreaching, and a little pretentious to feel the need to theorise
to that extent, but when I constantly feel pulled or pushed by the digital
nudges of social media platforms to keep consuming it comes across as a very
grounding, real idea.  It makes being human a creative exercise in staying sane
and healthy. Setting your life around creating little stories that tell you
you're loved, and expressing how you care for and love others.

---<br>

# Reading List
- [I'm deaf and this is what happens when I get on a Zoom call](https://www.fastcompany.com/90565930/im-deaf-and-this-is-what-happens-when-i-get-on-a-zoom-call)
- [The man who carried computer science on his shoulders](https://inference-review.com/article/the-man-who-carried-computer-science-on-his-shoulders)
- [A billion dollars worth of server lying on the ground](https://cerebralab.com/Is_a_billion-dollar_worth_of_server_lying_on_the_ground)
- [The Hyper-Regional Chippy Traditions of Britain and Ireland](https://vittles.substack.com/p/the-hyper-regional-chippy-traditions)
	- Best thing I've read all week, best distraction from waiting for the US election results. Again, how the narratives of food ground us.
- [6 Scary outage stories from CTOs](https://thenewstack.io/6-scary-outage-stories-from-ctos/)
- [Digital Gardens](https://www.technologyreview.com/2020/09/03/1007716/digital-gardens-let-you-cultivate-your-own-little-bit-of-the-internet/)
- [Raspberry Pi 400](https://martinpeck.com/blog/2020/11/06/Raspberry-Pi-400/)
