---
layout: post
title: "Happy Christmas"
date: 2020-12-28 19:40 -0800
categories: Weeknotes
tags:
---

It feels like the main issue with everything interesting or world changing is
that there's a lot of hard maths at the root of it.
<!--more-->
Anyway, I spent the rest of my time at the cabin getting more reading done!
I ended up finishing the 6 books I was reading. I'm now back in civilisation where
I'm caught up with WiFi (as I had to be to get these posted), can't say I
particularly recommend it.

In fact the time at the cabin was so valuable I need to find ways to recreate
it. Maybe slicing the connections at home, or giving myself a connectivity
curfew to work around. Even bringing back a little of that mentality will
probably help. Apparently Donald Knuth gives himself that buffer too, he refuses
to get an email address and only checks his correspondence every 3-6 months.
I think that means of having no interruptions, and buffering them all together
allows you to get the deep work done, but it's a hard habit to get into. I wish
I was in it already, but the second best time to plant a tree is now. The
negative side of the trade off is responsiveness, but compared to throughput
that's not really much of a gain anyway. There's nothing much to miss out on
at the moment.

Aside from thinking about that I've been engaging with the important business
of Christmas. With my partner's family in Calgary this involved a lot of
tearing around, I tried cross-country skiing for the first time (hard but
satisfying), snowshoeing (just tiring), and skating (terrifying, glad to still
have my teeth). We spent yesterday skiing in Banff where I had a few fun
wipeouts. I fell on one slope, lost a ski and started sliding, didn't stop
for about 100m. I'm sore.

Today we flew out to Vancouver, which is the first time I'm seeing more of
Canada than AB and the Rockies. It's so wonderful here. My medium term goal
is to move out here when I finish my MSc and get a job. It already feels
pretty homey, but having the mountains so close by is amazing. Kind of on
the edge of the world, and at the same time close to everything that matters.

# Reading list

- *Why We Drive*, Matthew Crawford
- *Algorithms to Live By*, Brian Christian and Tom Griffiths
- *Complexity: A Guided Tour*, Melanie Mitchell
