---
layout: post
title:  "Blended learning"
date:   2020-10-02 09:44:14 +0100
categories: Weeknotes
tags:
---

I've finally hit week 1 of studying at the University of Bath! This week has
been all about getting into the swing of semi-distant learning.<!--more--> We're scheduled
to study 4 days a week remote, with one 4-hr in-person session a week. There
are at least 10 online platforms to juggle all in all, which really could be
worse, and everything fills a purpose. At least we're CS students, if anyone
could be expected to cope with distance learning it's probably us.

I'm getting squared and sorted with my notetaking and work situations, getting
into all of the habits that should make this year as effective as possible.
Health is a key part of that too. The weather's suddenly turned, and I'm a lot
less incentivised to get out running. I'm also struggling with some feelings in
my right wrist that might be the beginning of RSI, this could be because I
stupidly decided to try out a keyboard with a really high key height just
because it has some shiny bells and whistles like LEDs. I'm back to typing on
the straight laptop keyboard now, and I'll see if that improves anything.

# In person

On Wednesday we had our first in person session. There wasn't much work to do, it was mainly an introductory thing, and we also had to do the weird approach of all being in the same room, then signing in to a Microsoft Teams meeting to include those who couldn't make it, but after we settled in I found it incredibly nice to spend some time chatting to other students. There's a very different mindset between people who are working and people in an academic setting. I've really missed the kind of wandering conversations you get to have in that space. Meeting the other students and chatting to them about where they're coming from was definitely the best part of the week. We're all headed into the same strange year. Plus I got some tips on my Vim setup (need to work on including plugins, [Goyo](https://github.com/junegunn/goyo.vim) is apparently quite nice for writing blogs).

It was much less fun actually getting to campus. It was my first time getting to the university and I wasn't that familiar with Bath's public transit. I narrowly missed the bus going there, and had to get two on the way back. Might take the bike next time. The SU was an experience in post lockdown contact tracing measures, scans on the NHS app, and tapped in with our library cards, but a £4.20 pint of Guinness, a lot better than London.

I also did the very first project sheet of coding on the course! A little homework on C, I've previously taken early parts of [Harvard's CS50](https://cs50.harvard.edu) course, so none of it was really new. I think things will slowly ramp up through the term. Bath seems to have a really good focus on equipping us with the tools for discovery and the principles underlying coding rather than focusing on teaching us the languages, which is exactly the approach I was looking for. It was also great to compare the different levels people are at with their coding experience, seems like a good mix between us all.

Focus for the next few weeks is staying targeted for upcoming coursework, and chewing through the material as and when it comes. I'm finally all finished with my job, it's good to be able to draw a line under that, even if it's a bit bitter sweet.

---<br>

# Reading List

- [How to digitize your lab notebooks](https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-020-02728-0). Thinking about this especially as I begin a new degree. Digital records have helped me keep consistent, backed up, searchable access for years now, even in my undergrad. I think despite the feel of writing things down, the abilities of digitisation are so fundamental. I would recommend a tool like Obsidian, Roam, or Dendron. Obsidian at the moment is a great product, and if you get quick at the MathJax syntax, you don't get too held up on diagrams.
- [It used to be simpler to teach UNIX](https://jpmens.net/2020/09/27/it-used-to-be-simpler/), makes me think about the [Missing Semester of CS](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/) which is a fab introduction to the CLI and other handy tools.
- [How to read a paper (pdf)](https://web.stanford.edu/class/ee384m/Handouts/HowtoReadPaper.pdf) - this is a classic, but just going back into research it's very handy, straight from my course reading.
- [Six Figures in 6 days](https://tr.af/6) - Selling an icon pack at $28 a pop
  netting over $100k in a few days. That's how to value your creative work!
  Also a line in the [HN comments](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24637405) that says "Digital life is taking over. It's
  the equivalent of putting some plant trees in your living room." Essentially
  making money off 4000 people wanting to spend a bunch of time and pay money
  to rearrange their digital plants.
- [Large scale sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 genomes from one region allows detailed epidemiology and enables local outbreak management](https://www.medrxiv.org/content/10.1101/2020.09.28.20201475v1). Genome sequencing as a means of tracking a virus' transmission seems to me incredibly cool and futuristic work.
- [Everything Is Going to Be All Right](https://twitter.com/John_S_Phipps/status/1311958575661674497?s=20)
