---
layout: post
title: "Cabin Part Two"
date: 2020-12-20 11:00 -0700
categories: Weeknotes
tags:
---

I've spent another week in the cabin up in the Rockies happily cut off from the
world, working on what I'm calling my Canuck-ification.  <!--more--> We found
some cross-country skis that fit me and, while we can't hit the trails until my
quarantine is up, I've been doing loops in the back yard. Dani took me
tobogganing down the hill for the first time today. We had 10cm of snow
overnight.

Most of the days have passed with the sort of calm that you only get from a
long break. Everything impending let go, just drifting along punctuating the
days with eating, a few games of crib, a little exercise.

I've been getting a lot of reading done, although very little progress with
the maths I wanted to look at. The books I have made my way through have been
great. bell hooks is always an incredible, incisive read and *all about love*
was no exception. *The Idiot* by Elif Batuman is a great read. I particularly
enjoyed the brief mention of Emacs in the letters between Selin and Ivan.

With the maths I'm trying to look at, it's not going in very well. The Donald
Knuth is heavy going, and my muscles on that front are very weak. While I
really enjoyed the foundations of computation course over the past semester
I'm wondering if that was mostly because the teaching was great. I'm trying to
plow through but a lot of the mathematical fundamentals feel like they're not
going in very well. There's been a lot of talk about the modulus and binomials
and it's just kind of swimming around in my head with no grounding. I need to
work through the exercises but that of course is the hard part.

Excited to head back to the city in a few days for Christmas. Hopefully a little
skiing before then too.

# Reading list
- *all about love*, bell hooks
- *The Idiot*, Elif Batuman
- *Everybody Lies*, Seth Stephens-Davidowitz
- *Cryptography Made Simple*, Nigel P. Smart
